On our way towards the Northern Territory/ Western Australia border the scenery was vast, full of freedom and magic colours. The deep blue sky was filled with blobs of white clouds, contrasted with gingery golden grasslands curving in the hot breeze Amongst it, tan coloured termite mounds filled the surrounding planes, looking like hundreds of plasticine volcanoes dotted around as far as the eye could see. We drove through it with no air con but armed with enthusiasm and lots of podcasts for the hundreds of kilometres ahead. 

The landscape was beautiful to watch go by, for hours and hours there was no one else on the road, except for the Road Trains. Famous in the north of Australia, the lack of a railway network has turned these (sometimes) five-trailer long trucks into the preferred way to transport goods into this isolated area of the country. And no doubt they always overtook us on our very slow, tiny Mitsubishi averaging only 90km/h, giving us a fright every time. 

Everyday we aimed to get to a safe place to spend the night by sunset, and we mixed our sleeping arrangements up by mostly spending the night in free rest areas (which are plentiful and excellent in the NT/WA), and staying at a caravan park whenever we needed to use the shower or a fridge. 

The first logical stop after the WA border Lake Argyle, a well worth tiny (by Aussie terms) couple of hours detour. Here positioned on a plateau, in the middle of absolutely nothing for miles and miles around, is the largest man made lake in the world. Overlooking this massive body of water in the deserted red landscape is the Lake Argyle Resort, a holiday park with an infinity pool posititioned perfectly to to overflow straight onto the lake. We sat outside on a hot night listening to live Australian folk concerts, learning the lyrics to Waltzing Matilda and watching the bright full moon rising across the canyon silhouetting the Boab trees.

From here onwards the grasslands allowed for more Boab trees to enter the scene. From the same family as the African Baobab, these huge trees are more characteristic of the even more remote Kimberley's but they suited their surroundings and photographed perfectly against the red canyons These jutted from the ground on both left and right horizons as we drove through, and slowly a charcoal landscape evolved. Bush fires are important part of regeneration of the land for the native Aborigines and it was common to see smoking land along the roads we travelled especially in this less populated, harsher part of the country.

The road killed Cows and Kangaroos lined the side of the ??? HWY and were the only indication life existed in the surrounding hundreds of kilometres. Hit mostly at night by road trains their decomposing smell would travel miles up the road to us.

But we were glad to arrive in Broome, the next major town after Darwin heading eastwards. Broome is famous for its tropical climate, wide sandy beach, where every day a pack of about 50 silhouetted camels parade against the sunsetting coulours making for a great photo opportunity. It's an oasis of respite and an opportunity to get humoured by the warm sea breeze and stock up on cold beer and food, much welcomed on the edge of the desert. 

The next 500km from Broome to Port Headland was torture. We drove all the way painfully close to the ocean, or so it seemed on the map. But the 10km which stood in between us and the sea meant we couldn't even catch a glimpse, only couple of roads led to the shore but were for 4WD only, so a part of the journey we looked forward to imagining coastal bliss and no crocodiles turned out to be a lesson learnt. Things are always farther than they seem in Australia. 

Afer this traumatising experience, but not because of it, we left the "coast" road at Port Headland and went south towards Karijini National Park. After so much driving we felt relieved to be able to go for walk. Karijini is an awesome place, it has a few hiking trails so we went hiking into the river gorges and along the river bed following goannas around and jumping into fresh water swimming holes. As the recurring theme of northern Australia, most roads in the park were 4WD only, so we were limited on what we could explore but even what we did manage to see would have kept us happy for a couple of weeks, so I can't begin to imagine what the rest is like.

Back on the road one more day got us to Exmouth, a lively small town where we caught up with old friends and camped for a few nights at the Cape Range National Park, gateway to the Ningaloo reef. Here you can snorkel and swim with whale sharks, and the tour companies guarantee you will. The catch is that they use spotter planes to locate the whales for the boats making it much easier to find the huge docile mammals. But this means the tours are really expensive so we didn't manage to fit that in our budget. The beaches were also to die for, picture fine white sand clear turquoise water, turtles and reef sharks, a place I never dreamed of seeing in Australia.

We spent days staring at the sea, swimming, hiked into a dry river gorge with great views over the coastline which makes the Ningaloo Marine Park. In the evening we camped in the perfectly located campsites on the National Park, right on the beach and at sunset we watched the comedy Kangaroos bouncing out of their hiding shady holes for their evening feed.

From here we drove to Geraldton, it took a couple of days, in which we noticed the temperature dropped as we kept driving further and further away from the tropic of Capricorn. Suddenly it was all green, hilly and fertile.  

In an attempt to keep costs down, make ourselves useful and meet some locals Aussies we would spend the next week volunteering with a wonderful family of five, baking bread, feeding lambs, catching our breath and giving our wheels a rest.